# Reading Prep: Binding

#### Madeline Hulse

## Questions or Observations

1. The whole story about Baxter's Procrustes seems to have an underlying theme of don't judge a book by its cover. Baxter is explicitly described as having a physical appearance that contrasts with his personality and is additionally described as having unreadable actions; a specific example being his apathetic comment about the sick boy despite him donating a large sum of money towards his treatment. The information surrounding Baxter immediately led me to the conclusion that the book he made was either empty or filled with nonsense, and everyone simply assumed it was amazing due to the bindings. I found it ironic that the narrator was so astute regarding his observations of Baxter himself but was unable to forsee the bogus contents of the book. 
2. I've heard of the Appalachian Trial before and watched youtube videos of people hiking it, so I was really interested in the project Lindsay Schmittle was putting together for her letterpress studio on Kickstarter. Personally, I was a little disappointed by the prints, but I'm not really a huge fan of abstract art, so that could be why. I did really like how she incorporated textural elements from her walk into the print though, they make the prints exponentally more interesting, and I was wondering whether the bark or any other textures she used broke when she used them in the press and if she had to get new pieces for each print, because I couldn't find any mention of it. 
3. I loved the Fiapo book and I think the binding they chose for the book was perfect, and seeing the finished product emphasizes how important the binding decision was. Had they not chosen lay-flat binding, I think they definitely would have lost the sense of continuity they were going for and the book would have had a completley different feel. *Question*: why don't people opt for this sort of binding style more often? I think it's more aesthetically pleasing and would suit the content of a lot of books (such as art books) more favorably. I assume it has something to do with expense, the type of paper used for printing, and possibly consumer preference. Lay-flat binding could be more prone to tearing, making it a less desirable purchase for consumers, especially if it's more expensive. 

Quote I liked (for my notes):
"There is a reverence surrounding the book object, particularly for those (like ourselves) who were brought up in the aspirational middle-class. As academics in publishing studies, we can critique this reverence, but it is still part of us. Desecrating books for the purposes of art and scholarship—drowning them, even just annotating them—requires confidence born from the possession of significant cultural capital."