# Reflective: Book Alterities

#### Madeline Hulse

## The Effects of Unorthodox Forms

During our week of discussing book alterities, we visited the NU Archives to look at some unorthodox books. Some of the books I looked at included *House of Leaves* by Mark Z. Danielewski, *100 Coordinates of Violence*, *1000 Coordinates of Violence*, and *After Reasonable Research* by Miranda Maher, a book on color and shapes, some fold-out tunnel pictures, and a letterpress book about the Itsy Bitsy Spider. I would consider them all to be artist books, as they deviate from the normal form of the codex with intention. As we looked through the books, I began to wonder what purpose each author or artist had in mind while choosing to break the norm, and if they were able to achieve the intended effect. How does the form of a book affect a reader's interpretation or accessibility of the content?

The first books I looked at were the books by *Miranda Maher*. When looking through them, I felt that the first two had presented the content in a fashion that made comprehension more difficult, and I remember looking at them and wondering, "What was the author *thinking*?" So, I looked her up. On her [Etsy](https://www.etsy.com/ca/shop/mirandamaher?ref=simple-shop-header-name&listing_id=82307556 "Etsy - mirandamaher"), the description for *1000 Coordinates of Violence* says the "book attempts to collapse the temporal and geographic distance we maintain between historical violent events and our own lives, leading the reader into an 'examination of our relationship to the profound and unremitting violence of history'". As the reader, I personally feel like the attempt failed, as the only things I felt were confusion and annoyance at the lists of locations and coordinates that didn't mean much to me. I had a similar response to *100 Coordinates of Violence*, which had a hole through the middle of the book intended to "reference the marking point on the earth". 

*After Reasonable Research* was a different story, however. The book was a document folded in accordion style that "lists all open and declared armed hostile conflicts that have taken place between the year 1 and the year 2006". The list seems incredibly long and unending considering the conflicts listed only went up to 2006 and very likely don't include every instance of violence. For me, the form definitely served the intended effect of being "an uncomfortable reminder that the refinements of civilization are inseparably bound up with brutality". I think if the author had chosen different forms for the first two books, she would have been able to achieve the intended effect to a much greater degree. For example, a heat map of the world displaying conflicts one year at a time using the coordinates/data she had compiled would have provided a better visualization for readers, in my opinion. 

There was one book I didn't look at myself, but was able to see during our discussion at the end. It was small, circular, and completely spiral-bound such that it was impossible to open without ripping/breaking it, making the contents unreachable. Someone jokingly mention it was a Schrödinger-book, and I completely agree. The pages on the inside could be empty. I don't know what the creators intention was with creating this book, because I couldn't find the artist/author online, but unless it was to frustrate, confuse, or anger the reader, the effect wasn't properly achieved in my case. However, other students in the class felt more curious about the book and it made them think, so the book may have achieved the authors intentions with other readers. 

Looking at these different case studies, it seems obvious to me that the form of a book has a significant affect on the readers interaction/communication with the author, and it is therefore important for authors to make careful decisions when aligning the forms of their books with their content.