# Reflective: E-Lit I

#### Madeline Hulse

## Benefits and Drawbacks of E-Lit 

E-Lit is a unique and very new medium for books. It provides the author with a lot of new techniques to incorporate into books that aren't possible, or at least as easily added, to the codex, such as sound, video, animation, lengthier text, links to jump quickly from one spot to another, interact-ability, etc. The book we looked at this week, for example, "What Football Will Look Like In The Future", utilized a lot of the benefits of the digital medium, which frustrated and pleased some of my classmates. 

The first chapter of the book displayed calendars of each month with messages back and forth between two entities (in different colors to differentiate speakers) because the messages they send to each other take incredibly long amounts of time to go through. At one point, one of the speaker cannot message the other for 27 years and 13 days. To read the next message, the reader has to scroll through a lot of calendars until they get to the next message, which everyone agreed gave a better sense and understanding of how much time had passed between sending messages. Having that many calendars wouldn't have been as feasible with a codex, which would have been harder to flip through to find the next line and would have taken up an incredibly large number of pages, making the book very large (in addition to wasting a lot of paper). 

Another feature the book attempted to utilize, which frustrated some people in the class, was forced linearity. I say attempted because I, and a few others, found a way around the sense of forced linearity. When starting the book, the only way to get from chapter to chapter is supposed to be through finishing the chapter and clicking a "continue" button at the end. However, if you know how to manipulate URLs to jump from page to page on a website, you can delete the portion of the URL that specifies the current chapter, which takes you to the table of contents, where you can navigate wherever you want. This completely erases the sense of forced linearity and actually makes it incredibly easy to skip around in the book, which illustrates one of the potential flaws in E-Lit design. The author failed, or possibly didn't care, to take into account the fact that the reader had this ability. It may seem small, but it actually has a large impact on the way the reader experiences the novel.

Some chapters of the book were comprised of an imbedded YouTube video and a continue button at the bottom. The videos often featured text being typed out that overlaid a moving GoogleMaps map. The GoogleMaps images made the earth appear clunky and alien, which some people said gave them an eerie feeling when watching the videos. The aesthetics of this videos contributed to the experience of reading the book and enhanced the contents. However, because the videos were embedded and uploaded on YouTube, when the video was over a bunch of recommended videos would pop up of what to watch next, which often ended up showing videos related to another chapter of the story. This resulted in another leak in the linearity of the book and also distracted the reader from solely focusing on the current chapter. As we can see, having a digital medium provides the author with a lot of techniques that can be used to enhance the book, but if used incorrectly or without care, these same techniques can take away from the reader's experience as well. 


