# Reflection: Fabrication II: Paper Circuits

#### Madeline Hulse

## Tinkering with Future Books

During the second week of talking about fabrication, we looked at the concept of bibliiocircuitry and had a class activity involving circuits. In *Bibliocircuitry and the Design of the Alien Everyday*, artist Carlea Holl-Jensen talked about the possible value in drawing to the reader's attention the awareness of the book as an object and how the form of a book "might prevent, or at least frustrate, access to the text, in order to manipulate the reader’s experience of its content and challenge her understanding of the text’s meaning". She created a book that was folded in such a way that full access to the text could not be obtained unless certain folds of the book were cut. In the case of her book, I don't think the form necessarily adds to or enhances the textual contents of the book or its meaning. It may hide additional meaning for a certain period of time, but it doesn't seem to me as though this would challenge the reader's understanding of the text's meaning, unless the story relies on being progressivly unfolded, but from her description it seemed like you just had more of the story after unfolding and having the extra parts doesn't have a major impact on the previous pieces available. The form does call the reader's attention to the book as an object, however. Like with Donald Norman's teapots, the un-ordinariness of the form makes the creator and user think more about the physical design than rather just the content or functionality of the object. However, this sort of design that doesn't necessarily add to the actual content and seems to function as more of an artistic statement about books rather than being a part of or adding to the content. 

When trying to create my own sort of book in class using the circuit tape, battery, and LED lights, I tried to make a kind of stoplight that changed colors based on how much of the book you had folded so far (i.e. one fold would be the green light, the second would be yellow, and the last fold would be green). My goal was to make it interactable and actually have some sort of storyline, even if it was super basic. I never got it working, because while making it I realized how difficult setting up the circuits and getting them to work was. Actually attempting to create a book from scratch in a hands-on manner deepened my understanding of what is meant by reflective design. By putting together the parts and examining each individual component yourself, it's easier to imagine how you can change certain pieces and be more creative with the form of a book, which is the role of reflective design. I think it's interesting to combine this sort of thinking with newer types of technology, such as circuitry and computers, because it allows for the book's form to evolve in creative and useful ways. Without examining the actual form and physical design of the book, I think it would be almost impossible for books to advance solely based on changing the contents and textual components of the book. 

The Multimodal Reading Space by Cameron Mozafari, for instance, seems like it could be a precursor to audiobooks or text-to-speech functionality in e-books, although I'm not really sure when he created it. This idea really ties back into the reading from last week from *Between Bits and Atoms: Physical Computing and Desktop Fabrication in the Humanities* and how thinking through building is essential for making things in the humanities. By tinkering with the form of the book using new fabrication techniques like desktop fabrication we can imagine and invent the book of the future. 


