# Reflective: E-Lit II

#### Madeline Hulse

## The Current Generation of E-Lit

During our second week of talking about E-Lit, we spent a large portion of class looking through and discussing Twitter Bots, which are [listed as an example of Third Generation electronic literature by Leonardo Flores](http://electronicbookreview.com/essay/third-generation-electronic-literature/ "Third Generation Electronic Literature"). Prior to class, we explored several different examples of second generation E-Lit. One of the biggest differences I noticed, which Flores discusses in his article, is the difference in approachability. The second generational E-Lit seems more roughly put together. When first opening and trying to interact with each one, there is a sort of learning curve you have to get over before you can really understand how to read and interact with the literature. Even in the absence of a learning curve, the interfaces on the majority of them are not as well developed, so the controls are not as intuitive, the text may be too small, and the lack of responsive web design causes them to load weirdly. Third generational literature is able to avoid this issue, as it utilizes widely used platforms that readers are already familiar with and understand how to use. 

In the Twine game [With Those We Love Alive](http://slimedaughter.com/games/twine/wtwla/), for example, I originally had a hard time figuring out how to progress through the story in a timely fashion. After some trial and error, I realized the story mostly progressed by going to sleep instead of going around to the different locations in the story as I had expected. We also looked at ["The Deletionist"](http://thedeletionist.com/), which was a really cool idea that was either poorly executed or no longer works well on current web pages. The intention of The Deletionist is to convert web pages into poems by deleting certain words, but on the majority of pages I tried it out on the remaining text usually repeated similar letters that didn't actually create words or had the same word repeated over and over. From the *Electronic Literature Collection*, I looked at several different works, including *Separation/Séparation*, *Toucher*, *The Sweet Old Etcetera*, *This Is How You Will Die*, and *Façade*. My initial response to almost all of them was confusion. I couldn't figure out exactly what was going on, what I was supposed to do, or how to read them. They were all very experimental and unique, however, which definitely sets them apart from the Twitter Bots we looked at.

My two favorite bots that we looked at during class were [@Every3Minutes](https://twitter.com/Every3Minutes) and [@ pentametron](https://twitter.com/pentametron). Every three minutes is a bot that tweets to remind its followers that "a slave was sold on average every 3.6 minutes between 1820 and 1860" in the United States. Pentametron is a bot that finds and retweets iambic posts. The twitter bots are distinct from each other in the content their tweets provide, but the format is relatively the same for all of them. The exception, as was pointed out in class, is the pentameter bot, which requires you to actually visit the bots page to read the tweets that are paired together to create a verse. Bots are appealing due to their ability to reach a wide audience. Twitter has millions of users, giving bots a very wide potential audience. They're easy to follow and don't require much effort to interact with or understand, which illustrates some of the benefits provided by third generational literature. 

Looking at other examples of E-Lit, I found a lot of narrative-based games on Steam and even some textually based games in VR. A Place Called Ormalcy, for example, is a VR Literature work that follows the life of Mr. Ormal using text and 3D modeling. Device 6 is an RPG thriller app on the iOS store that uses text as both narrative and geography to tell a story and allow the player to solve mysteries. Based on the majority of examples I was able to find, I would classify the E-Lit available on Steam and app stores as third generational literature, as they're utilizing platforms that are already familiar to the majority of users and already have a large potential audience. VR Literature, at the moment, seems to lie more in the second generation of E-Lit. VR isn't super prevalent and the platform is still new, so a lot of development practices are varied. This means the majority of users have difficulty learning how to navigate different VR publications. With the large amount of E-Lit circulating on social media platforms such as Snapchat, Tumblr, Wattpad, Instagram, Reddit, Facebook, etc., I would say the majority of E-Lit currently available lies in the third generation, and we should expect to see more AR and VR E-Lit in the future as the platforms expand and more users gain access of the technology used to view them. 
	
