# Reading Prep: Fabrication I: 3D Printing

#### Madeline Hulse

## Questions or Observations
1. Although all of the projects snapshots from *Making Things and Drawing Boundaries* were interesting, I didn't think any of them, save the MashBOT, could possibly be considered books. I would say the same for the Lincoln life mask. Just because an object is dialogic doesn't make it a book, I don't think. It does come very close, however, because I believe engagement is a key aspect to what makes something a book. 
2. I found the article on Ron Arad really interesting because if he figures out a way to actually print an entire book in one piece, that means in the future people could possibly print there own books at home (since there's a lot of speculation that 3D printing could advance to the point that it becomes a household item). 3D printers would then effectively function as sort of a personal letterpress, which is quite cool. I was also trying to think of why people would ever actually want 3D printed books though, because they seem rather inferior to the codex that we have now, and I realized they could potentially be very useful for blind people who read in braille. If you could easily 3D print books, people who read braille could purchase models for books they want to read online and then print them in their home. 
3. The overall theme of the between bits and atoms chapter about digitizing, modeling, rematerializing, and programming artifacts and cultural objects seems to kind of represent where the book is at right now. I feel like the book is transforming from a more physical object to a more digitized version, and a lot of the tools and technologies they talked about related to physical computing and desktop fabrication are very likely what will be used during this transformative period. 