# Reading Prep: E-Lit II

#### Madeline Hulse

## Questions or Observations

1. Going through the Twine book/game was initially rather difficult, as I had to figure out how to properly move through the story, which required me to catalog my actions and remember the outcome. I think this enforces a certain level of engagement with the book, which is very unique and something I'm not sure is possible or easily replicated with the codex. Additionally, it was kind of frustrating not knowing how much longer the game was, because it's not like a book where you can turn it to the side and see how many pages are left, or look at the scroll bar on a website to judge where you're at. 
2. “The Deletionist” was a really cool idea, even though I'm not a huge poetry fan, because it gives you the ability to basically generate an infinite number of unique poems. However, the majority of the times I tried to use it on websites the remaining text usually didn't even create words and mostly repeated similar letter sequences over and over. Perhaps it's due to the outdatedness of the code, in which case the project kind of illustrates an issue of ephemerality with digital books that rely on certain web browsers, features, devices, etc. for functionality that the codex doesn't have to deal with.
3. One rather broad question I still have after going through everything is why E-Lit like the examples we have looked at isn't as prolific in the general reading population. I'm assuming it has something to do with the fact that the size of the population who has access to and would understand how to read E-Lit is smaller than the portion of the population who still prefers to purchase books. It also seems like the work would be harder to publish and actually profit from, so there are less authors attempting to produce these kinds of works. 