# Reading Prep: Zines

#### Madeline Hulse

## Questions or Observations

1. Pagan Kennedy felt like Zines gave her the ability to express herself and write what she wanted in a way that she felt books could not, but is it really so different that the same personality couldn't be replicated in a digital form? I felt that the style of her writing and the way she added images/drawings/comics is what made it really self-expressive, but I'm not sure if the difference between a physical or digital copy is significant. 
2. I found the quote that "publishing on the internet often had the unintended and unconscious effect of causing her to cater to the aesthetics of those platforms" very interesting, because in some ways I think that's true, but I'm not sure whether that should be attributed to the platform itself or the people that way society in general decides to use the platform. It would be interesting to try to create a social media platform that, like Zines, provides the content creator/publisher the same feeling of freedom and author control regardless of what other users publish. I think most people censor themselves according to the way they think they will be percieved by the general audience, regardless of whether it's in a Zine for friends or a large social media platform.
3. After browsing through *Traces*, I am less sure that there isn't a significant difference between digital and physical zines. I personally couldn't stand the organization or aesthetics of the majority of the website/Zine and immediately wanted to navigate away. This made me think about how, with the physical copy, a reader may be less inclined to immediately abandon reading, because there isn't as much to immediately navigate away to. That difference is soley involved with retaining readership, however, and there are many more aspects that could be analyzed. 